    DATA analytics is the process of analyzing raw data to draw out meaningful insights. These insights are then used to determine the best course of action.
This is done through through different  processes: of inspecting, cleaning, transforming, and modeling data using analytical and statistical tools.
Why is data analysis important? Analyzing data effectively helps organizations make business decisions. Nowadays, data is collected by businesses constantly:
through surveys, online tracking, online marketing analytics, collected subscription and registration data (think newsletters), social media monitoring,
among other methods.

DATA analytics is a powerful tool in today’s marketplace that can be used to make decisions and craft business strategies. Across industries,
organizations generate vast amounts of data which, in turn, has heightened the need for professionals who are data literate and know how to interpret 
and analyze that information.
Professor Jan Hammond, Harvard Business School:
    “Using DATA analytics is a very effective way to have influence in an organization,
    If you’re able to go into a meeting and other people have opinions, but you have data 
    to support your arguments and your recommendations, you’re going to be influential.” 

    Data analysis has become an indispensable tool for businesses seeking to thrive in today’s data driven world. By unveiling actionable insights,
enhancing customer understanding, enabling data driven decision-making, identifying market opportunities, improving operational efficiency, and 
mitigating risks, data analysis has transformed the way businesses operate. Embracing data analysis as a strategic asset empowers
organizations to stay ahead of the competition, make informed decisions, and drive sustainable growth in the dynamic business landscape of today and beyond.

    It is beleived and being outlined that current trends of Data analytics:
    AI-Powered Data Analytics;
    Data-Centric AI;
    Metadata-Driven Data Fabric;
    Edge Computing.

    Generation, processing, and data storage are critical steps for any organization. It comprises numerous hidden pieces of information 
waiting to be explored by a professional with expertise in data handling.

    AI-powered data analytics are now trending due to advanced and dynamic algorithms that assess data at different scales and fuel multiple 
cases that cannot be performed using traditional methods. It is known that AI algorithms have raised the production lead by 50%, where 80% 
of employees stated productivity improvement. In addition, 37% growth in the global AI market size is expected by 2030.

    One of the data analytics trends, data-centric artificial intelligence, refers to the systematic order of data engineered to generate AI systems. 
It mainly focuses on understanding, applying, and making decisions based on the data. It does not rely on algorithms but uses data analytics and machine 
learning to learn from data for better data management. 

    Data fabric is a system that isolates information from metadata, learns, and takes actions accordingly. Also, it flags out the opportunities or 
issues associated with data and offers suggestions to overcome them.The main goal is to manage data systematically, and this has decreased 70% of several 
data management tasks, including deployment and designs. 

    One of the data analytics trends, Edge Computing, is a range of devices and networks near the users. It offers a path to collect data from devices via
low-latency connectivity, high-performance processing, and secure platforms. It is an emerging computing paradigm where data is processed at the periphery 
of the network. Here, edge computing speeds up the data travel from a device to a nearby edge. Edge computing is primarily used to move data storage to its
origin or source, leading to easy data management. In addition, you get accurate data and valuable insights that help with informed decisions, thus reducing 
costs and leading to performing continuous operations. The approach is valuable in the business market, generating opportunities to increase the use of digital
experience.













